# lokesh2509-Attendance-System-using-Facial-Recognition-in-Raspberry-Pi

Attendance is an important part of daily classroom evaluation. At the beginning and ending of class, it is usually checked by the teacher, but it may appear that a teacher may miss someone or some students answer multiple times. Face recognition-based attendance system is a problem of recognizing face for taking attendance by using face recognition technology based on high-definition monitor video and other information technology.
The objective of this process is to create a software that can autonomously mark the attendance and store them in a database, this technology aims to upgrade the traditional method of marking attendance. The current methods of attendance monitoring are mainly either by speech e.g.: Roll Call or smart cards both these systems are extremely vulnerable to proxies. Our Project has the potential to eliminate this as it collects the attendance data by the means of facial scanning. Unlike the current methods the entries by facial recognition are extremely difficult to fake adding a layer of security to the process. The machine mainly comprises of two main components namely the camera module and the brains in this project we have decided to use raspberry pi as the processor because of its compact size, ready and cheap availability and the pi camera module, the language used is python. The Goal of our project is simple, to create an attendance monitoring system that uses facial recognition to record and mark attendance in the database that should be accessible remotely. As the system uses facial recognition it is much more secure and accurate in comparison to the current methods and virtually does not consume any time as it can work autonomously. As the system is a type of calm technology it can also be used for security and for entering places such as classrooms as it can segregate authorized personnel from the unauthorized ones and send an alert to the admin should an unauthorized person enter the class.
Many organizations, companies and institutions are taking periodic attendance using RFID methods, Biometric Fingerprint method and Registers. These methods generally take more time for calculation. RFID uses electromagnetic fields to automatically identify and track tags attached to persons. Biometric fingerprint identification systems employ fingerprint as a unique identity. It is one of the most accurate systems running effectively today. But recognition of an individual fingerprint from a set of enrolled fingerprints is a difficult process. The fingerprint system does not reveal any information regarding the original fingerprint. This may have been proved to be false as many algorithms reveal that a fingerprint can be reconstructed with minute templates. Iris Recognition is another type of implementation where the iris of people is scanned, stored and then retrieved for the comparison and attendance is managed automatically in the server. But there is difficulty in capturing iris of the students or employees and hence a fast implementation of face recognition with decreased illumination effect can be used.
